docs/e2e/e2e-checks.md, before:

# End-to-End (E2E) Tests

## Overview

This repository uses [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) to perform end-to-end (E2E) tests. The tests can be run locally (natively or within Docker), but they also run on [Pull Request preview environments](../infra/pull-request-environments.md). This ensures that any new code changes are validated through E2E tests before being merged.

## Folder Structure
In order to support e2e for multiple apps, the folder structure will include a base playwright config (`./e2e/playwright.config.js`), and app-specific derived playwright config that override the base config. See the example folder structure below:
```
- e2e
  - playwright.config.js
  - app/
    - playwright.config.js
    - tests/
      - index.spec.js
  - app2/
    - playwright.config.js
    - tests/
      - index.spec.js
```

Some highlights:
- By default, the base config is defined to run on a minimal browser-set (desktop and mobile chrome). Browsers can be added in the app-specific playwright config.
- Snapshots will be output locally (in the `./e2e` folder or the container) - or in the artifacts of the CI job
- HTML reports are output to the `playwright-report` folder
- Accessibility testing can be performed using the `@axe-core/playwright` package (https://playwright.dev/docs/accessibility-testing)

## Running Tests Locally

### Running Tests with Docker (preferred)

First, make sure the application you want to test is running.

Then, run end-to-end tests using Docker with:
```bash
make e2e-run APP_NAME=app BASE_URL=http://host.docker.internal:3000
```

*Note that `BASE_URL` cannot be `localhost`


### Running tests Natively

First, make sure the application you want to test is running.

To run end-to-end tests natively, first install Playwright with:

```bash
make e2e-setup-native
```

Then, run the tests with your app name and base url:
```bash
make e2e-test APP_NAME=app BASE_URL=http://localhost:3000
```


### Viewing the Report
If running in docker, the report will be copied from the container to your local `./e2e/playwright-report` folder. If running natively, the report will also appear in this same folder.

To quickly view the report, you can run:

```bash
make e2e-show-report
```

*On CI, the report shows up in the Github Actions artifacts tab


### PR Preview Environments

The E2E tests are triggered in PR preview environments on each PR update. For more information on how PR environments work, please refer to [PR Environments Documentation](../infra/pull-request-environments.md).

### Workflows

The following workflows trigger E2E tests:
- [PR Environment Update](../../.github/workflows/pr-environment-checks.yml)
- [E2E Tests Workflow](../../.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml)

The [E2E Tests Workflow](../../.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml) takes a `service_endpoint` URL and an `app_name` to run the tests against specific configurations for your app.

## Configuration

The E2E tests are configured using the following files:
- [Base Configuration](../../e2e/playwright.config.js)
- [App-specific Configuration](../../e2e/app/playwright.config.js)

The app-specific configuration files extend the common base configuration.

By default when running `make e2e-test APP_NAME=app BASE_URL=http://localhost:3000 ` - you don't necessarily need to pass an `BASE_URL` since the default is defined in the app-specific playwright config (`./e2e/app/playwright.config.js`).

Commit message:

clean report folder docs update

docs/e2e/e2e-checks.md, after:

# End-to-End (E2E) Tests

## Overview

This repository uses [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) to perform end-to-end (E2E) tests. The tests can be run locally (natively or within Docker), but they also run on [Pull Request preview environments](../infra/pull-request-environments.md). This ensures that any new code changes are validated through E2E tests before being merged.

## Folder Structure
In order to support e2e for multiple apps, the folder structure will include a base playwright config (`./e2e/playwright.config.js`), and app-specific derived playwright config that override the base config. See the example folder structure below:
```
- e2e
  - playwright.config.js
  - app/
    - playwright.config.js
    - tests/
      - index.spec.js
  - app2/
    - playwright.config.js
    - tests/
      - index.spec.js
```

Some highlights:
- By default, the base config is defined to run on a minimal browser-set (desktop and mobile chrome). Browsers can be added in the app-specific playwright config.
- Snapshots will be output locally (in the `./e2e` folder or the container) - or in the artifacts of the CI job
- HTML reports are output to the `playwright-report` folder
- Accessibility testing can be performed using the `@axe-core/playwright` package (https://playwright.dev/docs/accessibility-testing)

## Running Tests Locally

### Running Tests with Docker (preferred)

First, make sure the application you want to test is running.

Then, run end-to-end tests using Docker with:
```bash
make e2e-run APP_NAME=app BASE_URL=http://host.docker.internal:3000
```

*Note that `BASE_URL` cannot be `localhost`


### Running tests Natively

First, make sure the application you want to test is running.

To run end-to-end tests natively, first install Playwright with:

```bash
make e2e-setup-native
```

Then, run the tests with your app name and base url:
```bash
make e2e-test APP_NAME=app BASE_URL=http://localhost:3000
```


### Viewing the Report
If running in docker, the report will be copied from the container to your local `./e2e/playwright-report` folder. If running natively, the report will also appear in this same folder.

To quickly view the report, you can run:

```bash
make e2e-show-report
```

To clean the report folder you can run:

```bash
make e2e-clean-report
```

*On CI, the report shows up in the Github Actions artifacts tab


### PR Preview Environments

The E2E tests are triggered in PR preview environments on each PR update. For more information on how PR environments work, please refer to [PR Environments Documentation](../infra/pull-request-environments.md).

### Workflows

The following workflows trigger E2E tests:
- [PR Environment Update](../../.github/workflows/pr-environment-checks.yml)
- [E2E Tests Workflow](../../.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml)

The [E2E Tests Workflow](../../.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml) takes a `service_endpoint` URL and an `app_name` to run the tests against specific configurations for your app.

## Configuration

The E2E tests are configured using the following files:
- [Base Configuration](../../e2e/playwright.config.js)
- [App-specific Configuration](../../e2e/app/playwright.config.js)

The app-specific configuration files extend the common base configuration.

By default when running `make e2e-test APP_NAME=app BASE_URL=http://localhost:3000 ` - you don't necessarily need to pass an `BASE_URL` since the default is defined in the app-specific playwright config (`./e2e/app/playwright.config.js`).
